README.md, before:

# Arterial Traffic Flow Prediction

This repository contains all of the code that I have been using for my research.

Command to run the training data generation script

    python3 scripts/generate_training_data.py --intersection 5083 --plan_name P2 --output_dir data/inputs/5083_sensor_data -v

Command to run all models to have errors in a central location

    python3 model_runner.py config.yaml -vv

Command to run DCRNN for sensor 5083

    python3 DCRNN/dcrnn_train.py --config_filename data/5083/5083.yaml | tee data/5083/5083.out

Command to get predictions

    python3 DCRNN/run_demo.py --config_filename data/5083/dcrnn_DR_2_h_12_64-64_lr_0.01_bs_64_0918120854/config_92.yaml --output_filename data/5083/predictions.npz

Command to plot predictions

    python3 DCRNN/scripts/graph_predictions.py data/5083/predictions.npz data/inputs/5083_sensor_data/test.npz

### Random notes about DCRNN

- Data loading is weird. At first glance, it seems to only run through the data once, replicating the last value if necessary, and if it runs out of data, does not supply any more data. This might be avoided if multiple DataLoaders are created.
- Might want to bootstrap (at least the replications)
- StandardScaler only scales the first dimension of the input (maybe to leave time unaffected). Might want to change it so that time is the first dimension and everything else is scaled, or time is the second dimension and everything else is scaled.
- I think the way the word "epoch" is used is incorrect; not a huge deal, but just misleading
- dcrnn_cell:103: Could be (1 - u) * state + u * c; in theory is the same, though
- dcrnn_cell:165: Is there an extra 2 times the last extraneous term in the sum?
- dcrnn_model:49: It looks like the decoding cell is the same cell as the encoding cell, which may not perform as well, according to Sutskever's paper
- dcrnn_model:39: Why are the labels using input_dim instead of output_dim?
- Validation loss is used for early stopping regularization
- Change DCRNN so that it predicts with the shape (num_data, offsets, num_detectors, num_dimensions) and that time is not included in the output

### TODO

- Baseline methods visualization and table
- Predictions on dummy data that is linear
- Try predictions for only 1 or 2 detectors with full coverage
- Flow and occupancy and flow / occupancy
- Visualization library

Commit message:

Get train and val errors from log for DCRNN

README.md, after:

# Arterial Traffic Flow Prediction

This repository contains all of the code that I have been using for my research.

All commands must be run from the top-level Code directory.

Command to generate distances and adjacency matrix

    python3 scripts/generate_graph_connections.py --intersection 5083 --plan_name P1 --adjacency_matrix_path data/inputs/model/distances_5083_P1.csv
    python3 DCRNN/scripts/gen_adj_mx.py --sensor_ids_filename data/inputs/model/sensors_advanced_5083.txt --distances data/inputs/model/distances_5083_P1.csv --output_pkl_filename data/inputs/model/adjacency_matrix_5083_P1.pkl

Command to run the training data generation script

    python3 scripts/generate_training_data.py --intersection 5083 --plan_name P2 --output_dir data/inputs/5083_sensor_data -v

Command to run all models to have errors in a central location

    python3 model_runner.py config.yaml -vv

Command to run DCRNN for sensor 5083

    python3 DCRNN/dcrnn_train.py --config_filename data/5083/5083.yaml | tee data/5083/5083.out

Command to get predictions

    python3 DCRNN/run_demo.py --config_filename data/5083/dcrnn_DR_2_h_12_64-64_lr_0.01_bs_64_0918120854/config_92.yaml --output_filename data/5083/predictions.npz

Command to plot predictions

    python3 DCRNN/scripts/graph_predictions.py data/5083/predictions.npz data/inputs/5083_sensor_data/test.npz

### Notes about DCRNN

- I think the way the word "epoch" is used is incorrect; not a huge deal, but just misleading
- dcrnn_cell:103: Could be (1 - u) * state + u * c; in theory is the same, though
- Validation loss is used for early stopping regularization
- `self._test_model` uses the variables from `self._train_model` because they share the same variable scope

### Confusions/Weird things

- Data loading is weird. At first glance, it seems to only run through the data once, replicating the last value if necessary, and if it runs out of data, does not supply any more data. This might be avoided if multiple DataLoaders are created.
- Might want to bootstrap (at least the replications)
- StandardScaler only scales the first dimension of the input (maybe to leave time unaffected). Might want to change it so that time is the first dimension and everything else is scaled, or time is the second dimension and everything else is scaled.
- Change DCRNN so that it predicts with the shape (num_data, offsets, num_detectors, num_dimensions) and that time is not included in the output
- dcrnn_cell:165: Is there an extra 2 times the last extraneous term in the sum?
- dcrnn_model:49: It looks like the decoding cell is the same cell as the encoding cell, which may not perform as well, according to Sutskever's paper
- dcrnn_model:39: Why are the labels using input_dim instead of output_dim?
- dcrnn_model:48-49: Uses the same cell * `num_layers`

### TODO

- Plan P1
- Add different kinds of errors to output
- Step through data to debug constant shifting
- Baseline methods visualization and table
- Predictions on dummy data that is linear
- Try predictions for only 1 or 2 detectors with full coverage
- Flow and occupancy and flow / occupancy
- Visualization library
